Add `osu! World Cup 2024: Qualifiers Recap` news post (#12367)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2024/2024-10-30-osu-world-cup-2024-qualifiers-recap.md

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-lvd" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6701656">chiv</a></p>

It's common practice in most tournaments to base the qualifier difficulty off of the mid-range stages, and OWC is no exception. The Qualifiers this year are around 7.3*, which is parallel to our current Quarterfinals difficulty. The mid-range scope allows for a general assessment of a team's skill cap and consistency capabilities. It's important to recognize that while seeing your favourite players battle it out on extremely difficult maps may be incredible, we can't forget about consistency being the most vital skill set in tournament gameplay.

As you've probably recognized, OWC has seen a drastic upward shift in difficulty over the last few years. Due to multiple factors like technological development, skill set refinement and overall player growth, the tournament as a whole has gotten much harder (OWC'24 RO32 being comparable to OWC'20 QF). Qualifiers has followed suit alongside the rest of the mappools. As players continue to grow and hone their craft, we'll do our best to continue to match the expectations.

</div>

---

> For the next month and a half you will have the chance to witness top tier osu! tournament gameplay, so be sure to check out the wiki go familiarize yourselves with the mappools, schedules, and all other details [on the osu! wiki](/wiki/Tournaments/OWC/2024), get involved with the community live on the official [osu! Twitch channel](https://www.twitch.tv/osulive), and support your favourite players and teams.

Reviewer: For the next month and a half, get ready to immerse yourself in top-tier osu! tournament action! Check out the [osu! World Cup wiki page](/wiki/Tournaments/OWC/2024) to download and try the mappools yourself, see the schedules for when your favourite teams are playing, and all of the other essential details. Join us on stream live this weekend for the Round of 32 at [osulive](https://www.twitch.tv/osulive) or [osulive_2](https://www.twitch.tv/osulive_2) to support your favorite players and teams.

Join us next week for more exciting updates and news!

—0x84f, ChillierPear, Dada

The other rule change relates to the mappools, with the mappooling team opting to lift restrictions from banning more than 1 map from each pool slot (e.g. Hidden, Double Time etc.), allowing teams to completely block a mod from being played. The reasoning behind this is that modern mappools ditched the "slot pooling" meta for a more varied pool, with each map showcasing a different skill, so it didn't make sense to keep this rule in place.

Speaking of the mappool, let's check out what the mappooling team cooked up this week, and later on we'll talk to [chiv](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6701656) and [Dada](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6701656) about mappooling for Qualifiers at such a high level of play.

## Mappool recap

[**Download the pool here! (132 MB)**](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/packs/P263)

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://player.twitch.tv/?video=2281065609&parent=osu.ppy.sh&autoplay=false" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</div>

![Qualifier mappool table](/wiki/shared/news/2024-10-30-osu-world-cup-2024-qualifiers-recap/mappool.jpg)

> The Qualifier pool for the osu! World Cup 2024 featured 11 maps, all custom-made specifically for the tournament. While it was a step-up in difficulty from last year, there were teams who still managed to FC some maps with all 4 players, which just shows that the playing field has been improving just as much, if not more, than the increase in challenge.
> 
> Some highlights of the pool include [Crystal Illusion](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2267934#osu/4829693) by [milr_](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4485933) (HR2), a Hard Rock precision map with challenging elements of flow aim and cut streams that was home to one of the most impressive scores in the entirety of the round, being an SS by [decaten](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5645231) of team USA, and [We Are One (Original Vocal Mix)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2267993#osu/4829833) by [Aistre](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4879380) (DT1), a tricky, extremely fast aim map at a high AR on Double Time, which ended up challenging many players through its unusual patterning reminiscent of an older era.
> 
> A final, noteworthy highlight is the return of the osu!mania original [Toromaru](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2268007#osu/4829864) through a map done by [Wispy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11106929), slotted in the Hidden pool. The tricky rhythms and structure ended up being quite a challenge in osu!standard as well, as the map was one of the most difficult in the pool by the end of the week, as the statistics suggest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The osu! World Cup 2024 Qualifier pool featured an 11-map lineup, all tailor-made to accurately gauge the skill levels of the participating teams. While it marked a notable step up in difficulty from last year, some teams still managed to secure full combos with all four players—a testament to the significant improvements across the competitive field.

Highlights from the pool include [Crystal Illusion](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2267934#osu/4829693) by [milr_](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4485933) (HR2), a Hard Rock precision map packed with challenging flow aim and cut stream patterns. This map set the stage for one of the round's most impressive scores: an SS by ::{ flag=US }:: [decaten](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5645231), which was the first SS on any Hard Rock map in OWC since the Round of 32 in 2022! Another standout was [We Are One (Original Vocal Mix)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2267993#osu/4829833) by [Aistre](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4879380) (DT1), a blazing-fast Double Time aim map with high AR and throwback patterning that tested players with its nostalgic, old-school flair.

Rounding out the highlights is the return of the osu!mania 4K World Cup 2023 original [Deorbit](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2268007#osu/4829864), skilfully reimagined by [Wispy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11106929) for the Hidden pool. With its intricate rhythms and complex structure, this map brought a unique challenge to the osu! World Cup as well, standing out as one of the toughest in the pool by week's end, as the stats show.
```

## Qualifier highlights

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://player.twitch.tv/?video=2287184079&parent=osu.ppy.sh&autoplay=false" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</div>

Qualifiers started off with a bang, already giving the community plenty to discuss. With 65 different countries competing for the top 32 spots, there were many heartbreaks, surprises, and first times.

![Qualifier results table](/wiki/shared/news/2024-10-30-osu-world-cup-2024-qualifiers-recap/results.jpg)

> Starting off with the top 3, among the usual suspects lies a newcomer, Australia! Australia has been a very dominant team for many years, landing anywhere between the top 12 and top 5, but this year they look to be stronger than ever, achieving seed #2.
> 
> Next to them, we also have two goliaths of the osu! World Cup, the United States and South Korea, getting seeds #3 and #1 respectively. These two teams have been going at each other for two years straight, and even though the United States have managed to keep them off their backs so far, there are rumblings around the community that this year might be different.
> 
> When it came to the teams that are considered mainstays of the World Cup such as Germany, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, etc., there haven't been many changes, with Poland being the only major outlier. To the shock of many, Poland this year did not manage to place not just in the top 3, but not even in the top 10. With many of the veteran World Cup players not participating, it looks like it's time for the new generation to pick up the slack (with [Rafis](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2558286) as their mentor) and maybe even restore Poland back to their old glory.
> 
> As always, the most hype overall was generated for the teams that teetered on the edge of 32nd seed, the underdogs such as Belarus, Peru, Uruguay, Italy, etc., all eager to represent their country and show what they are made of.
> 
> There were also teams that managed to qualify for the first time ever and try their hand at participating on the World Cup stage. Congratulations to Serbia, Macau, Ireland, Georgia, the Dominican Republic and Bosnia and Herzegovina, because even though they may have not placed this year, they show much potential for improvement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kicking off with the top three seeds, among the usual suspects lies a rising star—Australia! Known for their consistent top finishes between 5th and 12th place, Australia has come out stronger than ever, achieving an impressive #2 seed this year. They join familiar titans, South Korea and the United States, who snagged the #1 and #3 seeds, respectively. These two teams have been fierce rivals for two years running, and while the U.S. has held the advantage so far, whispers around the community suggest this year could mark a shift in the balance.

Among the osu! World Cup staples, teams like Germany, the United Kingdom, and Hong Kong continue to show up in force, though one notable shock was Poland. The former osu! World Cup 2017 winning country missed out on a top 10 qualifying placement, despite finishing as #2 seed just last year. This year saw several veteran players step down, including #1 Qualifiers performer [maliszewski](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12408961). Now, Poland's new generation, led by the experienced [Rafis](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2558286), is stepping up to the challenge of maintaining the team's legacy.

The biggest buzz came from the battle for the coveted 32nd seed, with Belarus seizing the final spot and edging out fierce underdogs like Uruguay, Mexico, Italy, and Vietnam. Each team showed incredible drive and left it all in the lobby, proudly representing their countries.

Several teams made history by participating in the osu! World Cup Qualifiers for the very first time! A round of applause to Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Dominican Republic, Georgia, Macau, and Serbia. While they may not have qualified this year, their performances showcased their immense desire for a spot and promise for the future!
```

<p class="news-chat-quote__username"><a class="news-chat-quote__colour-lvd" href="https://osu.ppy.sh/users/6701656">chiv</a></p>

It's common practice in most tournaments to base the qualifier difficulty off of the mid-range stages, and OWC is no exception. The Qualifiers this year are around 7.3*, which is parallel to our current Quarterfinals difficulty. The mid-range scope allows for a general assessment of a team's skill cap and consistency capabilities. It's important to recognize that while seeing your favourite players battle it out on extremely difficult maps may be incredible, we can't forget about consistency being the most vital skill set in tournament gameplay.

As you've probably recognized, OWC has seen a drastic upward shift in difficulty over the last few years. Due to multiple factors like technological development, skill set refinement and overall player growth, the tournament as a whole has gotten much harder (OWC'24 RO32 being comparable to OWC'20 QF). Qualifiers has followed suit alongside the rest of the mappools. As players continue to grow and hone their craft, we'll do our best to continue to match the expectations.

</div>

---

> For the next month and a half you will have the chance to witness top tier osu! tournament gameplay, so be sure to check out the wiki go familiarize yourselves with the mappools, schedules, and all other details [on the osu! wiki](/wiki/Tournaments/OWC/2024), get involved with the community live on the official [osu! Twitch channel](https://www.twitch.tv/osulive), and support your favourite players and teams.
> 
> See ya next week!
> 
> —0x84f, Dada

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the next month and a half, get ready to immerse yourself in top-tier osu! tournament action! Check out the [osu! World Cup wiki page](/wiki/Tournaments/OWC/2024) to download and try the mappools yourself, see the schedules for when your favourite teams are playing, and all of the other essential details. Join us on stream live this weekend for the Round of 32 at [osulive](https://www.twitch.tv/osulive) or [osulive_2](https://www.twitch.tv/osulive_2) to support your favorite players and teams.

Join us next week for more exciting updates and news!

—0x84f, ChillierPear, Dada
```
